# Death rate from energy production - Markandya & Wilkinson (2007)

Data was derived from Table 2 in Markandya, A., & Wilkinson, P. (2007). Electricity generation and health. The Lancet, 370(9591), 979-990. Available at: doi.org/10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61253-7 (accessed 2017-05-05).

This data was originally derived by the authors based on methodology developed by the European Commission's ExternE report. European Commission. ExternE: Externalities of Energy: Methodology 2005 Update. EUR 21951. Brussels: European Commission, 2005. Available at: https://ec.europa.eu/research/energy/pdf/kina_en.pdf (accessed 2017-05-05)

This data is based on European energy production standards and practices. Data includes both acute and chronic effects (chronic effects account for between 88% and 99% of total deaths). Figures for nuclear include all cancer-related deaths. The figures for death rates per TWh for cancer-related nuclear deaths by Markandya, A., & Wilkinson, P. (2007) are calculated on a theoretical basis using a method called the ‘linear, no-threshold model’. The basis of this model assumes that the number of deaths is directly and linearly proportional to the dosage of radiation; additionally it assumes there is no lower limit or “safe” level of exposure, meaning individuals are at risk even at very low doses.

We have estimated the hypothetical number of deaths which would have occurred globally in 2014 if the world's energy demand was met through a given source. This was calculated by multiplying the death rate per energy source by the IEA's estimate of global energy production in 2014 of 159,000TWh (Available at: https://www.iea.org/publications/freepublications/publication/KeyWorld2016.pdf)