# Death rates by cause and risk factor - Global Burden of Disease (2016)

The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) database reports the age-standardized death rates by cause and risk factors for any given year.
The age-standardized death rate measures the incidence of mortality per 100,000 individuals, normalised to a standardized population size and age distribution. This standardisation allows for fair comparison of death rates by correcting for differences in population size and changes in the age distribution across countries and through time. This gives an appropriate measure of the probability of death for any given individual from a certain risk factor or cause.
It is important to understand the distinction between risk factors and causes of deaths. Causes of deaths are defined by the OECD as: "the underlying cause of death refers to the disease or injury that initiated the train of morbid events leading directly to death or the circumstances of the accident or violence that produced the injury." Causes of deaths therefore include particular events such as road accidents, natural disasters, drowning, HIV/AIDS, and non-communicable diseases such as diabetes, and various cancers.
Risk factors are particular behaviors or lifestyle factors which affect the probability of incidence of particular diseases and causes of death. For example, tobacco smoking is a risk factor which increases the probability of lung cancer. In this case, it is not tobacco smoking in itself which is the cause of death, but the increased incidence of lung cancer.
In order to identify and highlight the specific behaviours, lifestyle factors - and thereby the potential intervention points for prevention of mortality - this data presents a mix of causes of death and risk factors. Many of the variables are straightforward causes of death - such as road accidents, drowning, fire, malaria, terrorism fatalities. However, for non-communicable diseases such as stroke, cancer, diabetes, which can form a complex combination of preceding behaviour and lifestyle factors we have instead presented the IHME's attributed figures by risk factors, including high blood pressure, obesity, high blood sugar & tobacco smoking. Identification of these factors is more conducive to highlighting the specific behaviours or preventative factors which can be addressed in order to improve health outcomes and reduce mortality rates.
Causes and risk factors are further clarified as follows:
'Outdoor air pollution' refers to outdoor/ambient exposure to particulate matter (PM) and ozone.
'Drug use' refers to the use of cannabis, opioids, or amphetamines, or use of injecting drugs [does not include tobacco or alcohol]. This is distinguished from 'drug disorders' which refers to direct death as a result of drug dependence and drug abuse.
'Alcohol disorders' refers to death as a result of alcohol dependence and alcohol abuse; this is distinguishable from 'alcohol use', which is premature death as a result of general alcohol consumption which is linked to increased risk of certain diseases.
'Road accidents' includes deaths from all road vehicles, including drivers, passengers, pedestrians and cyclists.

'Nutritional deficiencies' are defined as protein-energy malnutrition, iodine, vitamin-A, and iron deficiency.


