# Excess Mortality Data – HMD (2021)

Data is from the Human Mortality Database (HMD) Short-term Mortality Fluctuations project for all countries except the UK (HMD has data for England & Wales, Scotland, and N. Ireland but not the UK as a whole). UK data sourced from the UK Office for National Statistics (ONS).

We used the raw weekly death data from HMD to calculate P-scores. The P-score is the percentage difference between the number of weekly deaths in 2020–2021 and the average number of deaths in the same week over the years 2015–2019 (when available; for a small minority of countries fewer previous years are available, usually 2016–2019). We compare the number of deaths in Week 53 2020, which ended on 3 January 2021, to the average deaths in Week 52 over the years 2015–2019, because only one previous year (2015) had a Week 53. For the UK P-scores were calculated by the ONS.

We do not show the most recent weeks of countries’ data series. The decision about how many weeks to exclude is made individually for each country based on when the reported number of deaths in a given week changes by less than ~3% relative to the number previously reported for that week, implying that the reports have reached a high level of completeness. The exclusion of data based on this threshold varies from zero weeks (for countries that quickly reach a high level of reporting completeness) to four weeks. For a detailed list of the data we exclude for each country see this spreadsheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Z_mnVOvI9GVLiJRG1_3ond-Vs1GTseHVv1w-pF2o6Bs/edit?usp=sharing.

Death data is typically reported by countries on a weekly basis and numbered from Week 1 to Week 52 (or 53) over the course of a year. But countries define the start and end days of the week differently. Most countries use international standard ISO 8601, which defines the week as from Monday to Sunday, but not all countries follow this standard. For instance, England & Wales define the week as from Saturday to Friday. This means the dates of any particular reporting week might differ slightly between countries. In our excess mortality charts we use the ISO 8601 week end dates.

For a more detailed description of the HMD data, including week date definitions, the coverage (of individuals, locations, and time), whether dates are for death occurrence or registration, the original national source information, and important caveats, see the HMD metadata file at https://www.mortality.org/Public/STMF_DOC/STMFmetadata.pdf.

For a more detailed description of the UK ONS data, see the full report at https://www.ons.gov.uk/peoplepopulationandcommunity/birthsdeathsandmarriages/deaths/articles/comparisonsofallcausemortalitybetweeneuropeancountriesandregions/januarytojune2020.